Thank you very, very much. And is the [inaudible 00:00:05] family here? Anyone from… as they say in part of my city, your family done good. Long, long time. Isn't it? God love you. Well, thank you. Thank you for taking the time to be here. I really do appreciate it. Today, unfortunately, America is going to, have to speak to this quickly, going to reach a tragic milestone. 200,000 deaths recorded as of today because of the coronavirus. 200,000 deaths all across this nation. And it means there are empty chairs and dining room tables and kitchen tables that weeks and months ago were filled with a loved one, a mom, a dad, a brother, a sister. And in many cases, the pain was made a lot worse because… and I've had people tell me this and close friends of the family tell me, because they were unable to visit their elderly parent or grandparent in a nursing home just before they passed away.
Don't know how many stories I've heard about from the nurses saying they held up a cell phone to the patient on a ventilator in the bed about to pass, Mr. Mayor, and that's all they could speak to. And so the fact that people weren't able to hold funeral services where family and friends could pray together, remember the loved ones they lost and place them as they place them in the hands of God. And so many of the rituals we have come to help us cope with pain and loss, to help us honor the lives of those we've loved, to help us come to closure, just aren't available in the middle of this pandemic. What worries me now is we've been living with this pandemic for so long, we're risking becoming numb to the toll it has taken on us and our country and communities like this. We can't let that happen.
We can't lose the ability to feel the sorrow and the loss and the anger for so many lives lost. We can't let the numbers become statistics, a background noise, just a blur that we see on the nightly news. 200 moms, dads, sons, daughters, grandparents, uncles, aunts, friends, coworkers, who are no longer with us. And so many of them didn't have to lose their lives to this virus, quite frankly, if only the president has acted sooner. Back in May, Columbia University released a study that said that if the president of that acted just one week sooner, we would have saved 36,000 lives. Today, the leading model being used to track the virus, one which the White House and many the others rely on, that model says between now and the end of this year, while we're waiting for a vaccine, between now and the end of the year, we're going to lose up to 200,000 additional lives.
It ranged from 178,000 to 200,000. And it points out as well that if we act by doing what you're doing here in Wisconsin, wearing masks and making minimum requirements to meet this, we could save over 115,000 of those lives. So I hope to God we'll not learn the same lesson, we might have to learn the same bad lesson we learned in the first nine months. Due to Donald Trump's lies and incompetence in the past six months have seen one of the greatest losses of American life in history, in history. But sadly, it's not over. As awful as the past 180 days have been, the next 90 days could be twice as bad. Just pause and think about it. We could be looking at, as I said, between 178 and 200,000 lives lost. And all the president does is deliberately change the subject, which is especially infuriating. Once again, we're being told that we can save lives. This time as many, as I said, 110,000 lives if we just take the simple steps.
Chief among them wearing masks and still the president refuses. In fact, we just watched him hold an indoor rally with thousands of people, many of whom weren't wearing masks despite the clear evidence that we're putting everyone of those people's lives at risk. The president knew of these dangers back in February and he hid it from the American people. You can actually hear his own voice recorded by Bob Woodward's interview with him saying that he understood how bad it was. We hear him privately saying, "This is a deadly virus. Far more deadly than any flu." But that's not what he was saying to us publicly. Publicly he told us that it was just like the flu and it would disappear in the warm weather like a miracle.
It was all a lie. He knew it. What's his explanation? He said he didn't want to see the American people panic. He didn't want to panic them. Trump panicked. The virus was too big for him. All his life, Donald Trump has been bailed out of any problem he faced. And with this crisis, a real crisis, the crisis that required serious presidential leadership, he just wasn't up to it. He froze. He failed to act. He panicked and America has paid the worst price of nation in the world. Still, I support and understand what Donald Trump was saying. And by the way, the American people don't panic. We don't panic. I understand what he was saying because it crystallizes his whole worldview. When Donald Trump said he didn't want to create a panic, he wasn't just talking about a health panic, he was focused on the stock market. Trump was worried that if he told the public the truth, there would be a panic on the financial markets and that would hurt his chances of being reelected.
That's how Donald Trump views the world. He sees the world from Park Avenue. I see it from where I grew up in a town like this from Scranton, Pennsylvania. Hard scrapple, hard working town, just like this and so many more across Wisconsin. When you look at the world from Park Avenue, basically all you can see is Wall Street. And you think Wall Street built this country? Well, let me tell you. You think that Donald Trump as Donald Trump does, that handing out a $1.5 trillion tax giveaway primarily for large corporations and wealthy qualifiers is an economic plan? You think like Trump, that $15 an hour is too much for America's essential workers. You eliminate overtime pay for millions of American workers. You try to take away healthcare from 20 million Americans in the middle of this pandemic.
He's in court today, trying to get that done. You trying to take away protections for preexisting conditions for 130 million Americans. You propose a plan that in order to make it look good, you're going to get a little bump in your pay because you're not going to take out withholding for your social security. But guess what? The actuary at social security says if he does that social security will be bankrupt by the middle of 2023. You might get that out of your paycheck, a little more in your paycheck, but guess what? Go home and tell your mom and dad, say goodbye to social security they worked for their whole lives. You think being tough with China is a trade deal that opens the door to big banks to make money in China. That's basically all we got out of it. A lot of dairy farmers and farmers and manufacturing went under.
But guess what? It started a trade war that [inaudible 00:08:38] farm banker fees and America throws the American manufacturing into a recession. But you know what happened? I didn't know this at first. I couldn't understand why he was so excited about it. America's bank, Citibank, they got to open up in Beijing. They weren't able to before. He scuttled a deal to lower prescription drug prices. He probably had a deal, but he wanted the pharmaceutical companies before they lowered the prices to do something that they thought was unethical. He asked them to send out $100 checks with his name on it to the elderly saying that, that's the down payment. They said, "We're not going to do that." They weren't going to do it so the deal fell apart. And now some 30 million Americans are on unemployment.
You think the way to get American economy back on track is to give another gigantic multimillion dollar tax cut to the very wealthy. And here's what they're doing. The tax rate all of you pay in here is going to be higher than billionaires who make their money on investments. This is not exaggeration. He wants to lower, again, costing $30 billion to the Treasury, lower the capital gains tax to 15%. So while someone who makes their money is off the market is paying the 15% rate, you're paying at a 24, 26, 28, depending on your tax bracket rate. It's not right. Workers here pay close to twice that amount. Close to 30%. Trump's tax cut for the wealthy is going to cost billions of dollars a year and who's hide does it come out? It comes out of your hide. The simple truth is that Donald Trump ran for office saying he would represent the forgotten man and women in this country.
And then once he got in office, he forgot us. Not only did he forget them, the truth is that he never really respected us very much. Oh, he loves his rallies but the next time he holds one look closely. Trump keeps his distance from anyone in the rally. The folks who come are packed in tight as they can be risking disease, mostly without mask, but not Trump. He safely he keeps his distance. They showed a couple of days ago, a reporter trying to come up or someone come through, he said, "No, no. You got to keep your distance. I don't get close to these people." He's willing to let everybody else in the crowd risk their life, but not him. And now we know what he really thinks of the people who come to his rallies from someone who saw it up close and wrote about it up close in the White House. The former employee said he calls his own supporters, "Disgusting." He said one of the benefits of this pandemic, cause he doesn't have to shake their hands.
He doesn't have to shake their hand. That's a good thing about the pandemic. For Trump these rallies are about entertainment, adoration and not respect. But you don't kid yourself, this is a one way street. And all the things that Trump has said and done, nothing is more offensive than the way he's spoken about many of you and the brave women and men who served the nation in uniform. Those have given their lives in service to this nation. It's been confirmed by every outlet that he referred to them as losers and suckers. That's what Trump calls those who served and They're made the ultimate sacrifice. Let me tell you something, my son Beau served and volunteered to go to Iraq for a year. Won the Bronze Star, came home decorated, came home with stage 4 glioblastoma and died of cancer. He wasn't a loser. He wasn't a sucker. He was a patriot.
And all those people with whom he served, volunteered, were patriots as well. Just like your sons and daughters and many of you, your moms and dads. Frankly, I've dealt with guys like Trump my whole life. Some neighbor where I come who would look down on us because we didn't have a lot of money or your parents didn't go to college. Guys who think they're better than you. Guys who inherit everything they've ever gotten in their life and squander it. Guys who stretch and squeeze and stiff electricians and plumbers and contractors working on their hotels and casinos and golf courses just to put a few more bucks in their pocket. Guys who do everything they can to avoid paying their taxes they owe because they figure the rest of us, the little people, we can pick up the tab for the country. Do you have any doubt that the reason we haven't seen Trump's tax returns is because they didn't want to know what he paid?
They've only seen four Trump tax returns in the last 45 years. And I don't think there's been any ever since he's been running for president. He had to turn some of them over to start a casino in New Jersey. He had to show his taxes. And they showed that he paid zero. He talked about the billion dollars that… he paid zero, nothing. That's a fact. And when he was asked about it, you know what he said? This why I really don't like guys like this in my neighborhood. He said, "It makes me smart." Or in another way, "I'm not a sucker. Why should I pay when I can figure my way out?" Zero. Wall Street's a long way from Scranton, Pennsylvania, and here, but you get to see the world a little more clearly there. I grew up understanding as I believe all of you did that Wall Street didn't build this country, hardworking people, given half a chance, the middle class built this country and unions built the middle class.
Unions. Union labor like the folks in this room. I've learned a few simple lessons from my parents that I've never forgotten. One is from my mother. She used to say, and this the God's truth, "Joey, remember nobody's better than you, but everyone's your equal. Nobody's better, but everyone's your equal." It's pretty simple. We're all equal the way I was raised and we should be treated that way. I have to admit, I got my back up a little bit recently about something I saw and was on national television about the race. Some of the national… I don't think they meant anything by it, but I don't think they know how insulting it is. It was, Joe Biden, if elected, will be only the first president who didn't go to an Ivy League school in a long time. Somehow that meant I didn't belong.
How could a guy who went to a state school be president? My reaction was the same it has been my whole life and I have to admit it and I'm not proud of it, but you close the door on me because you think I'm not good enough, guess what? Like all you guys, I'm going to bust down that door. My guess is a lot of you feel the same way about a lot of slights you've had because of our standing, quote, unquote. I say it's about time that a state school president sat in the Oval Office because you know what? If I'm sitting there, you're going to be sitting there too. Another lesson I learned from my dad and my family heard this all the time. My dad lost a job when coal died up in Scranton. We had to move. He had to go to my grandpa, his father-in-law and say, "Can Gen…" My mom. "Can Gen and the kids stay with you about a year? I'll make it up to you. I got to move to Delaware where there's a job. I'm going to come home every weekend."
Talk about pride. Well, he used to say, "Joey, remember a job's about a lot more than your paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect. It's about your place in the community. It's about being able to look your kids in the eye and say, honey, it's going to be all right." The dignity of work, what you do matters. You matter. That's why I want to change the tax code. Instead of rewarding just wealth, and I don't want to punish anybody, but instead of just rewarding wealth in this country, it's about time we start to reward work. Under my plan nobody making less than 400,000 bucks and I don't make it and you don't make it. I don't think. In this country will see their taxes go up. But if you make more than 400,000 bucks, you're going to start to pay more. I'm not looking to punish anyone. I just think it's about time the wealthiest and the biggest corporations, most profitable companies began to pay their fair share. You got all 90 of them paying zero. Making billions of dollars. They pay no tax at all. Zero.
How can that be fair? The president talks all the time about how great the economy is. Well, I don't know what y'all think, but where I come from and a lot of places in this state, it's not so great. In the middle of this pandemic, now, the billionaires in this country have seen their wealth increase by $800 billion. Let me explain that again. All the billionaires in America during the pandemic, their net worth combined according to studies have increased by $800 billion. And the rest of us, well, 30 million people are unemployed. 20 million Americans are at risk of losing their home because they can't find the rent payment. Seven plus million Americans are working part time who want to work full time. Evictions are on the rise. And for a lot of families, the kids are at home, not in school. I believe it's the working people of this country that need a tax break.
And under my plan, they're going to get one. Whether you're buying your first home, paying for health care premium or childcare or caring for an aging parent, you're going to be able to afford it. I've said it many times, during this pandemic, we need to do more than just praise our essential workers, we need to pay them. We need to make healthcare affordable for every American. My plan will lower prescription drug costs by 60%. I'm going to make sure we keep protections for preexisting conditions that Obama and I put in place and make it a lot more affordable to have that healthcare. We need to empower labor unions in this country. Fair Labor Standards Act didn't say back in the '30s, you can't have labor unions. It said we should promote labor unions. That's what it said. And I will.
And one more thing. Under my Build Back Better plan, we're not only going to build infrastructure we need in this country with union workers and prevailing wage, we're going to do something else. We're going to rebuild manufacturing in this country and we'll do it by enforcing a real buy American plan. Look, the federal government has spent $600 billion a year in purchasing power that the federal government has every year from tax dollars and determines how it's used. When I'm president of United States, God willing, American companies with American workers, building American products using American supply chains are going to be the only ones who get the contracts. That means American aluminum for infrastructure, for developing more wind and solar and hydroelectric power, electric vehicles will replace cars in the federal fleet. We have one of the largest fleets in the world, the federal government. They're going to shift them all to electric vehicles and guess what?
That means you're going to be providing much more lighter frames, more aluminum for automobiles that already if they are aluminum built, they could reduce by 15%, even with a combustion engine. 1.5 million new affordable homes and housing. We're going to build and this is going to require a lot of work and increased work at home. We're going to make sure that we transfer 40 million buildings around America to make them weather resistant so that they are… you change the windows, the doors, the walls, the whole range. Building Back Better means firing up our shuttered foundries and forging ahead towards future that's truly made in America. I want to spend just a few moments talking about those who voted for Donald Trump last time. When I went was out here in the [inaudible 00:22:06] administration, you voted for us and then an awful lot of people in this county changed and they voted for Trump last time.
I know many of you were frustrated. You were angry. You believed you weren't being seen, represented or heard. I get it. It has to change. And I promise you this, it will change with me. You will be seen, heard and respected by me. This campaign isn't about just winning votes, it's about restoring the basic dignity in this country that every worker deserves. Basic dignity that we all have without winning back the hearts and yes, the soul of America, we're not going to make it. Just a few days ago when I was asked about the death count approaching 200,000, the president said, and I quote, he said, I won't quote him. The president said, "If you take out the blue states run by Democratic governors and just look at the red states, Republican governors are doing quite well."
Now, of course, it's a simple, factual matter, it's just not true. If you just count all the deaths in the red states, we are number two in the world in death just behind Brazil. But more fundamentally, reflects on the part of Donald Trump that he has a deeply flawed and divisive view of the United States, this nation and the job he holds. Think about what he's saying. He's saying, if you live in a state like Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania, states with Democratic governors, you're not his problem. He has no obligation to you. He's not responsible for you as president, your family or your wellbeing. I don't see the presidency that way. I don't pledge allegiance to red states of America or blue states of America, I pledge allegiance to the United States of America. One nation, indivisible under God. For real. I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I'm not going to govern as a Democratic president, I'm going to govern as president.
I get criticized for saying that sometimes with some in my party, but that's not what I'm going to do. I'm going to fight as hard for those who supported me as those who did not support me. This is not a partisan moment for God's sake. This has to be an American moment. In the next few weeks, we have a chance to put anger and division and the darkness that overtaken this country behind us. We've got to put it behind us. I know I've been criticized since I entered the primaries about, I say, I want to unite the country. We have to unite the country. This is not who we are and we can. We've done it so many times in our history. We've begun to a new. If we get control of this virus, we can. We can reward work. We can fix the healthcare system.
We can be a safe and just nation. We can deal with the existential threat of climate change which aluminum is going to be a gigantic part of. We can be what we are at our best, one nation. One nation, one people, one America. You just have to remember who in God's name we are. This is the United States of America. In our long history, there's been nothing we've been unable to do, nothing we've been able to overcome when we've done it together. And I'm confident going all over this nation, we can do it together. The American people are hungry. We have to bring the nation together. That's going to be my primary job. Ans I want to thank you all. God bless you for what you're doing. May you all stay safe and may God protect our troops. Thank you so much, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. And thank you ma'am. Appreciate it.
Hello, hello, hello, hello. Thank you, thank you, thank you. It's good to be back in Erie. I want to say hello to all of Erie. But mainly Mr.Mayor, City Council President Horton, and all local elected leaders who are joining us here today. And to your next Senator, Julie. We need to turn out and support for Democrats down the line here in Pennsylvania and win back that Pennsylvania state Senate. Folks, look. I want to thank you President McManus for coming out, you've been a good friend a long time. And for everyone at the UA for hosting this incredible training facility. I'm so grateful to have earned UA's endorsement. You have over 355 proud plumbers, pipe fitters, and more behind me then I can possibly thank you for.
Also, want to thank Rick for sharing his story with us today. And for being part of a conversation this year where he shared a story with America. And Rick, Delaware is thought of as being a great corporate entity, and chemical facilities, and all those things. But we have a $4 billion, as you probably well know, agricultural industry in the Delmarva Peninsula. It's a big deal and a lot of farmers are being hurt really badly, really badly. Farmers all across the country have been gutted by the president's broken promises and reckless trade war. But our farmers, just like our union members and anyone who actually does an honest day's work, see him and his promises for what they are. Rick, I want to thank you. And I think you put it best in the op-ed you wrote last year. You said, "It's a bunch of hot air and cold wind."
Folks, this is it. Election's here. The choice couldn't be more stark. The stakes couldn't be higher. So many Pennsylvanians are facing hard times right now. After my debate in Cleveland last week I took a train. That's what I've ridden a lot, an Amtrak train. From northeastern Ohio into Pittsburgh and Greensburg, Latrobe, Johnstown. And I heard the same stories everywhere, I've been hearing all around the country. You're trying your best but it never feels like enough. You're not looking for a handout. You're just looking for a fair shot. That's how my dad felt when we had to leave Scranton after it was no work, when coal died. He was in sales, he wasn't a guy who was in the coal mines. Although my great-grandfather was, they tell me, the first Irish Catholic State Senator ever elected in the state of Pennsylvania, and he was a mining engineer. But I remember him saying he made that walk, which a lot of you know here in Erie.
I call it the longest walk any parent has to make up a short flight of stairs to tell his kids we can't play in that ball camp, can't play in Green Ridge Little League anymore. You can't go to St.Paul's, you got to leave. Dad doesn't have a job. I'm going to have to leave. I remember him taking us home, my mom and three children at the time, home to my grandpop's. And I don't know how much pride it must've cost him to ask my grandfather, "Will you take care of Jean and the kids? I'll be back." And he started commuting every weekend 157 miles down to Delaware where he had grown up. We ended up in a steel town called Claymont, Delaware. Then we went to Wilmington. My dad got a sales job and he worked hard. Took about four years to build a decent middle class life and be able to buy a home.
But it wasn't easy for him, but he had an expression. He said, "Joey, I don't expect the government to solve my problems, but I at least expected them to understand my problems." America deserves a president who understands what people are going through. You're facing real challenges right now. And the last thing you need is a president who exacerbates them. More than 210,000 are dead, as was pointed out. We lose anywhere from 700 to a thousand people a day, dead. The president was told a little while ago… When he was told a 100,000 people a day were dying, you know what he said? He says, "It is what it is." Well, it is what it is because he is who he is. More than 7.5 million Americans have been infected, and counting. 175,000 cases right here in Pennsylvania. My heart goes out to all those families who, like any of us have lost a child's spirit, look at that empty chair at the dining room table tonight where somebody you love used to sit.
My heart goes out to everyone struggling in this economic crisis. Simple neglect on the part of this administration. There're 11 million jobs lost since the beginning of this crisis and still have not come back. Temporary layoffs have turned into permanent layoffs. We're still down 674,000 manufacturing jobs nationwide since the crisis started, and more than 40,000 manufacturing jobs here in Pennsylvania. The Trump presidency will be the first presidency since Hoover that is going to end up leaving office with fewer jobs than when he came into office. Since Hoover. But President Trump has laid… He talks about this V recovery. We went down real quick, we're coming up quick. Well, that's what you call a K-shape recovery. Those folks on the top of the K are doing very, very well. Recession at the top, those folks, everything's going up for them. But everybody in the middle and below is going down, seeing things get worse.
It means essential workers who sacrificed to keep us going through this pandemic are being left behind by the most unequal recovery in American history. And it means while the top… This is a fact, which is startling to me when I found it out. The top 100 billionaires, in the middle of this pandemic they made $300 billion additional dollars. Hear me now? 100 individuals made $300 billion this year. And what'd the bottom half get? They got the K, they got the slide down. Because the fact is, the President can only see the world from Park Avenue. I see it from Scranton. I see it from Claymont, for real. You all know what I'm talking about. You all see it from Erie. That's why my program to build back better is focused on working people.
Think about it. Think about all the people you know who got up this morning and had the following conversation. "Honey, I know we need four new tires, they're bald. But we can't do it now, we got to wait. You got to wait." Or "I know we just lost our insurance, but we're going to be okay. We're going to hang in there." Or having to make a choice, literally a choice, between getting the prescription or putting food on the table. If I said to that 10 years ago you'd look at me like I was writing a fiction story, but that's the truth. Those are decisions people are making today, right now.
Independent analysis put out by a highly respected Wall Street firm of all things, Moody's from Wall Street firm, projects that my build back better plan's going to create 18.6 million jobs in four years. That's harder now. That's not a liberal think tank, that's Moody's. And it's going to create seven million more jobs than the president's economic plan. And a trillion dollars more in economic growth than the president's plan. And here's how it works, I'm going to raise taxes. I'm not going to raise taxes on anybody making less than $400K, but you won't pay a penny more. But those making more than that, I'm going to ask them to finally begin to pay the fair share. I'm going to ask the big corporations and the wealthy to begin to pay. 91 of the fortune 500 companies today pay zero tax. You hear me? Zero tax. How many of you pay zero tax? And billionaires are paying at a tax rate… Because it's all investment money, they're paying a lower tax rate than you pay if you have a job as a plumber.
How can that be? So I'm going to raise. The money I'm going to raise, we're going to allow us to invest in working people and grow the middle-class back, and make sure everyone comes along this time. My plan is about making the kinds of investments that are going to stimulate economic growth. To get it back to full employment fast and help us build back better than before. We're going to create millions of good paying union jobs. I had the honor of being the guy in charge of the Recovery Act when the Great Recession occurred. The president turned to me, he used to love doing it at State of the Union messages. He'd never tell me what he was going to do. And he turns, says "And Joe, sheriff Joe's going to take care of that $800 billion."
Well, we got it done less than two tenths of 1% waste or fraud. And we built back the longest expansion in American history. Manufacturing and technology, making sure we're going to make the future made in America. And infrastructure, building: airports, schools, affordable housing, upgrading the water and pipes. Making sure it's sustainable and resilient, built, laid down by union plumbers and pipe fitters here in Pennsylvania and across the country. And clean energy, we're going to upgrade four million buildings with weatherization of two million homes. And it's estimated that'll create one million good paying jobs, union jobs. Union jobs to be filled by men and women like in this local here. Look folks, we're in a situation now where if you take a look at this build back better… I'm going to take a second. But I hope I don't take too many seconds before it rains here.
Number one, we were talking about it, Mr.President, a little while ago. He promised an infrastructure plan in 2016, '17, '18, '19. He didn't do a damn thing. Not one single bit. He promised to relieve main street slammed by the recession. But guess where that money went, that the Congress passed? It went into the Mar-a-Lago crowd, the wealthy. See, I'm not joking. It didn't go to small businesses. It didn't go to the people that needed it. My plan to revitalize American manufacturing infrastructure says we're going to use by American. We're supposed to be only buying American now.
Well, I'm going to invest $2 trillion in infrastructure and clean energy. We're going to raise over $3.7 trillion by eliminating that tax cut for the super wealthy. And folks, we're going to: fix water pipes, pipelines, replace lead pipes, upgrade treatment plants. We're going to construct 1.5 million new affordable housing units. We're going to build a $100 billion dollars rebuilding our schools. We're going to retrofit, which we started in our administration, 4 million buildings; including advanced heating and cooling system. There's going to be such a race to job creation for unions that you're not going to believe it, and I really mean this. And by the way, when I did the Recovery Act, which is $800 billion, not one… We had the largest infrastructure project short of Eisenhower's Interstate Highway Program; since that.
Not one single solitary dollar went to anything other than a prevailing wage. Had to be a prevailing wage. Look, I'm also going to make sure that corporate America being so kind, wanting to take over registered apprenticeships… You know what that's all about? You guys spend a quarter billion dollars a year making sure that you have apprenticeships that are the best trained people in the world. Well folks, I'm also going to pass the PRO Act. They're spending over $2 billion a year trying to keep you from being able to organize around the country. That's a promise. And also strengthen labor standards, especially OSHA rules. There's a lot we can do, but it's not enough to praise workers. We got to make sure they get benefited.
Folks, look, my dad had another expression. After he lost his job, we moved to Delaware. He'd say, "Joey, a job's about a lot more than a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect. It's about your place in the community. It's about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it's going to be okay.'" The fact is that every time the word climate change comes up Donald Trump thinks hoax. Every time it comes up, I think jobs. Let me be clear, no matter how many lies he tells, I am not, not, not banning fracking; period. We'll also increase incomes. We're going to see the burden and the cost with an increased 50, we're going to make sure. Not prevailing wage. We can't mandate that, you guys. By the way, I said inside, the other expression my dad had was, "There's only one way to deal with the abuse of power." Which corporate America is exercising now. "It's with power." And the only power we have is union power. You're the guys that keep the ball bearings on the other side of the gate from taking everything, and that's a fact.
So look, I'll try to move along quickly here. The fact is that we not ease the burden on the major costs in your life. What's the average middle-class person fear most? They're trying to tear down the Affordable Care Act. We're going to build on it, adding a new health insurance option. A not-for-profit public option, which is going to give private insurers real competition. We're going to increase the subsidies so premiums are lower and we can afford plans with lower deductibles and lower out-of-pocket expenses. Because we're going to be able to do that with the money we take back from the super wealthy. We're going to take on the pharmaceutical companies with a plan that slashes the cost of prescription drugs by 60%.
Look folks, we're going to work with states to ensure that every three, four, and five year old has access to free high quality preschool, not daycare. You send them to preschool, there's evidence of 58% of them will go all the way through. No matter what their background. No matter what poor school, poor neighbor they come from. You start them at age three, they have a 58% better chance of graduating all the way through high school and beyond. We're going to make sure the low and middle income families will never have to spend more than 7% of their income caring for their young. What's the comp… Talk to the women around here. I was a single dad for five years. I couldn't afford help. I thank God I had my mom, and my sister, and my brother to help me with my kids when my wife and daughter were killed.
We're going to make four year public college and universities tuition free for families making less than $125,000 a year. And when Erie gets his first new community college to open in Pennsylvania in 27 years, we're going to make sure that it's free for anyone who qualifies to get in. That's a fact. And by the way, that costs a lot of money. That costs $6 billion a year. That's about as much as we give a tax deduction for race horses. I mean this, we got to have priorities.
If you're buying your first home? Look at all people who've gotten out of school since the 9/11 generation. Where they got out of high school without a graduation. Where they got out of college, no graduations. Where they thought they had these good jobs waiting for them, but they all got shut down in the Great Recession. And now, what are they doing? They're unable to make that first home down payment. They're out there busting their neck. And a lot of them are college graduates, some of them are beyond that. Some of have their graduate degrees and no jobs, or no access. Well, I'm going to make sure you get a tax credit for up to $15,000 for your first time home buyer; period. That's going to provide you a down payment. We're going to protect social security, increase benefits for millions of seniors. So he can retire with dignity in some respect.
Folks look, but if we're going to get anything done, we've got to come together. We're going to have to vote like we've never voted before. Early voting is open here in Pennsylvania. So go vote if you can. And go to IWillVote.com/pa to find out when and where you can vote early. And if you requested a mail in ballot, return it as soon as possible. Make sure you seal it first in the secrecy envelope, and then sign the declaration on the outside of the envelope before you return it. As I said early this week on the sacred grounds of Gettysburg battlefield, I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I'm going to govern as an American president. I'm going to work as hard for those who don't support me as those who do.
And I'm so proud in this campaign to have earned the support of so many proud and patriotic Republicans, including Pennsylvania's former governor and secretary of Homeland Security, Tom Ridge. I want to thank him publicly for his endorsement. We may not in everything. We agree on this. This is a moment to put country above party. Because after all this country's been through, after all that America has accomplished, after all the years we've stood as a beacon for the rest of the world. It cannot be that here in the year 2020 we'll allow the government of the people, by the people, and for the people, to perish on this earth; as Lincoln said. We can do better. We can do better than what we've seen. We can be what we are at our best, the United States of America.
All this division being pushed by this president, all this stuff about encouraging… Here in the debate we had I ask him to condemn the Proud Boys. He said, "Stand back and stand down, but stand ready." What's going on here? This is not who we are. This is not who we are as a country, for real. We can argue like hell, but end of the day we come together. I am more optimistic about America's chances today than I ever been. Why? Because I think the blinders have been taken off, people have realized what's really at stake here. I think we can pull this together. I'm optimistic. I really genuinely am.
But here's the deal guys, we got to go out and make sure you vote. Because, the only way we lose this is by the chicanery going on relative to polling places. This whole idea… Not a single solitary reasonable person in either party has said mail-in ballots are corrupt. No evidence, but he's trying to make it sound that way. Trying to put people in polling places. The same guys you saw standing blocking people's way in Virginia with banners and rifles slung across their shoulders. Folks, it's not who we are. We're so much better than this. So I say to you all, God bless you all. Let's go out and vote. And may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Where am I going? Am I going this way? Thanks everybody. See you pal, thanks a million. Thank you! The other way
Good afternoon, everyone. It's great to be back in Miami. And thank you, Esther. I told you our family has been, unfortunately, this considerable consumer of healthcare. Please all sit down. Of healthcare and I've learned from personal experience as my sons, my daughter, my wife, family has learned if there are any angels in heaven, they're all nurses, male and female. Docs let you live and nurses make you want to live. I really mean it. They're there at the tough times. And by the way, thank you for your service in the military, but also thank you for the beginning of this pandemic.
Being a surgical nurse wasn't easy when there wasn't the PPE available to all of you as you walked into those operating rooms and dealt with all the problems. I know my son-in-law's a physician surgeon in Philadelphia and the stories at the beginning of this process, when we should have had everything available. So thank you not only for your skill and your courage, but your bravery and doing what you've done. And I want to thank you for the care dedication that you went on, all your fellow SEIU members, all your nurses that show up and struggle with illness or coping with the loss of a loved one in terrible times.
So many of you had to hold a phone to a patient's ear to say goodbye to a family member because they couldn't be there. They couldn't see them in the hospital as they passed. Now, I want to thank Victoria, Victoria for sharing her family's journey with us today. Victoria and I were talking a little bit earlier. I was in South Asia speaking with a president and he asked me what made America unique? And I said immigration because it's the history of this country. And he looked at me funny. He said, why is that?
And I said, because almost everybody who's come here, other than those who came in chains 400 years ago came because they're escaping something and it took enormous courage. I really mean this. Think about it, enormous courage to leave everything they knew, everything that was familiar, sometimes leaving family members to get on a boat, a plane, train, whatever the means was to be able to leave and start a new life. And to do that, you have to have optimism, courage. You have to be resilient. You have to be willing to believe you can make things change for the better.
That's what's built this country, immigration. We are, not figuratively, it's a phrase used to not often fully appreciated, a nation of immigrants. That's why we're the most unique and strongest nation in the world. It's family like yours and Esther's that have made this country what it is through the hard work and faith and perseverance. The richness and beauty of Miami is built from the connections of family, culture, values that we share with our friends throughout the Caribbean and Latin America. Earlier this afternoon, I visited Little Haiti.
Had been some years since been there when the earthquake occurred and I came to deliver some assistance to the Haitian community, as well as making sure we had temporary protective status granted. It's a cultural complex and now here at the site name for one of Cuba's most celebrated poets and thinkers. This city is living proof of the incredible strength that we draw from families and communities from every culture choosing America. So thank you, Victoria, for choosing us and I'm really honored that you're going to vote for me in your first election.
I promise you I will not let you down. I promise you I will not let you down. And let me also say at the top, my prayers continue to be with the president and the first lady for their health and safety as they like so many American families are dealing with COVID-19. I was glad to see the president speaking and recording videos over the weekend. Now that he's busy tweeting campaign messages, I would ask him to do this, listen to the scientists, support masks, support a mask mandate nationwide, require a mask in every federal building and facility and interstate travel, urge every governor, mayor to do the same.
We know it saves lives. His administration just rejected a mask mandate for public transportation on Friday. The CIA came along and said, we need to be protected and they said, no. I believe that was wrong and not very rational experts say that universal masking could say between now and January 100,000 lives. Let me say that again. Between now and January, mandatory masking could save 100,000 lives. I backed that mandate months ago. He should back it now. Since the president entered the hospital on Friday, since Friday, more than 100,000 more people have been diagnosed with COVID.
And this week, at least 5,000 more will die. Cases and deaths are climbing in many states. I hope the president's recovery is swift and successful, but our nation's covered crisis is far, far from over. Today, my prayers are with the families of the 210,000 Americans who died from the virus. All those families who got up this morning and there was an empty chair at the breakfast table, tonight, an empty chair at the dinner table where one should be, husband, wife, son, daughter, mother, father. And nearly 7.5 million Americans-
And nearly 7.5 million Americans have been infected with the virus to date. This pandemic and economic collapse has hit the Hispanic communities, particularly hard. Nationally, the infection rate among Hispanics is almost three times higher than white, non Hispanics. More than 40,000 Hispanics have died from COVID-19, devastating families and close knit communities of loved ones. And here in Florida, where Hispanics make up about one quarter of the population, they make up 37% of the COVID deaths.
Nearly 3 million Hispanics are unemployed. If you break that down, that last data, unemployment for Hispanic women and Hispanic youth actually went up last month. One in three Hispanic, small business owners have taken a hit and many are likely to have to close permanently. Some economists are calling this what they call a K shaped recovery. It means those at the top, they keep going up, their income. But everyone from the middle and lower-income, it keeps going down, keeps getting worse. Means that essential workers, so many of whom are Hispanic, have sacrificed to keep us going through this pandemic are being left behind by the most unequal recovery in modern American history. Because while workers are struggling, this is a shocking statistic, but it's true, the top 100 billionaires in America have done pretty well. Just since the COVID crisis they have made an additional $300 billion. The top 100 additional made an additional $300 billion. Everyone else though, they got the bottom half of that K, downward, a downward slide.
You're left to figure out how you're going to pay your bills, put food on the table, pay the rent, or if you're lucky enough to own a home, will you have enough money to pay the mortgage? How to balance doing your job with being a teacher to your kids, because their school has gone remote. You're asked to risk your neck if you can't work from home, while the risk of COVID are mostly kept outside, because you're one of our first responders, a union nurse like Ester or on an assembly line, or working in a customer service or tourism industry or at a checkout counter or police office, firefighter. I know this isn't an easy time, but I also think this pandemic has just helped us rip off the blinders in this country as how inequitable so many things are. People didn't even realize, and so now they've seen it.
I truly believe we have a tremendous opportunity to turn this moment of crisis in a moment of great progress for the country. That's why I've laid out a comprehensive agenda, not just to rebuild our communities, but to build them back, make bold investments in them so we can build back better than before the crisis.
An independent analysis, President talks about… he loves talking about Wall Street. He never talks about Moody's on wall street that pointed out, they did a detailed assessment of my economic plan and his. And here's what Moody's concluded. They projected my economic plan will create 18.6 million jobs, 7 million more jobs in the president's economic plan will in four years and $1 trillion more in growth than the president's plan.
And here's how it works. I'm not going to raise taxes on anyone who makes less than $400,000 a year. You won't pay a penny more. I guarantee you. But I'm going to ask the big corporations and the super wealthy to begin to pay their fair share. It's not punishment. It just about time you start paying your fair share. The money we raise from making sure they pay their fair share will allow me to invest it in working people on a growing middle class.
When I announced I said I wanted to rebuild the backbone of this country. Working folks, the middle class. They weren't built by wall street. It was built by labor. Advance racial equity across the economy to make sure everyone is included in the deal this time. We're going to invest it in creating millions of good paying jobs, union jobs in manufacturing and technology, making sure our future is made in America. In infrastructure, building roads, bridges, highways, ports, and airports like I was able to do when I ran the Recovery Act for our administration, putting billions of dollars in the Port of Miami, creating so good, hard working people with good decent union jobs, able to accommodate the new supertankers coming through the canal, generating some stability.
My plan will make sure Hispanic communities benefit from hundreds of billions of dollars in investments, to fill the cracks in the sidewalks, install broadband, close the digital divide, create spaces to live, work, and play in safely.
And clean energy. We upgrade 4 million buildings, weatherize 2 million homes. We'll create, at least, the estimates are at least 1 million good paying jobs and save us millions and millions of barrels of oil. We're going to meet the threat of climate change and invest in strengthening climate resilience, where we are already dealing with an existential threat of climate change. I don't have to tell you in Miami, don't have to tell you in South Florida or in my state, which has the lowest sea level, lowest degree of height from sea level than any state in the nation. Stronger, more frequent hurricanes, rising tides, flooding. And no matter where the president says, maybe you should consider dropping an atomic weapon on a hurricane coming our way is not a good idea. It doesn't work. Look, that's not some distant future in Miami or South Florida. You're dealing with it right now. What do you have to do to get knocked in the head to understand it?
We're going to make sure the small businesses could come out the other side of this crisis with access to capital and the ability to deal with their debts. My plan will get $50 billion in capital flowing to small businesses, which would get repaid in employment and taxes, especially minority owned small businesses and make another $100 billion in low interest loans available to those businesses to get back on their feet and stay alive, because you know as well as I do, and ethnic communities, they are the heartbeat, they're the center of a community. Whether it's a grocery store, a beauty shop, the barbershop, the hardware store, the essence of a community. We're going to make investments to increase incomes as well. It's long past time. I've worked with Governor Cuomo to get it done in New York and other governors across the country. No one should have to work two jobs to be able to be 40 hours a week, so they're above the poverty rate. $15 should be a minimum wage in the United States of America, period.
And for our essential workers, we're not just going to praise you, we're going to begin to pay you a good wage, be sure you have strong benefits. We're going to ease the burden of the major costs in your life. What are they? Healthcare. We're going to build on the Affordable Care Act, which gave 4 million Hispanic people in this country health insurance, by adding a new health insurance option, a not for profit public option. We're going to give private insurers a real competitor. We're going to increase subsidies, so your premiums are lower and you can and afford plans with lower deductibles and lower out-of-pocket expenses.
We're going to take on the pharmaceutical industry, a plan that slashes the cost of prescription drugs by 60%. You think I'm making these numbers up. If we just let Medicare negotiate independently for all the drugs they purchase, I promise you the rates are going to fall through the floor. Affordable and accessible.
Every three and four year old will have access to free quality preschool. All the studies at great universities and all the ones around the country have shown that no matter what zip code a child comes from, no matter what background, if they go to preschool, not daycare, preschool in school at three, four, and five years old, they increase exponentially, over by over 50% a prospect they'll go through all 12 years and many beyond.
And we'll make sure, sure that low and middle-income… and by the way, the total cost of that… it's called Title 1 program. We now spend $15 billion for in school districts that don't have high tax rates. Well, guess what? You change that to 45. You can put every one of these kids in school, pay the teachers legitimate rate and make sure that you have school psychologists and social workers in those schools. We're going to make sure that for childcare, for someone under the age of five or six, no one ever has to pay more than 7% of their income for their young children to get quality childcare, because you truly want to reward work in this country. We have to ease the financial burden of the care that families are carrying. Even before the pandemic, and many of you know it and many of you are doing it, millions of working families faced enormous financial and personal strains, trying to raise their kids and care for their parents or loved ones living with a disability.
It's going to sound strange, when I first got elected, when I was 29 years old to Senate, right after I got elected, my wife and daughter were killed. My two sons survived after hospitalized for a long time. I needed help do my job. I could not possibly afford childcare. Even though I was making a really good salary of $42,000 a year, more than I'd ever made. And I couldn't afford it. Being a single mom or dad or a family that has two people working with young children, it's incredibly costly. And by the way, and the professional caregivers out there, home health workers, childcare workers, were more often women, women of color and immigrants, and too often underpaid, unseen and undervalued. That's why my build back better plan will elevate the compensation, benefits and dignity of caregiver-
… Back Better Plan will elevate the compensation benefits and dignity of caregivers and workers and early childhood educators. That's what we're going to do. It's also going to invest in education beyond high school. If you qualify to get into community college, you'll automatically be able to go, and you'll be able to go for free. If you are qualified to get into a four-year public school in your state public college, and your family makes less than $125, 000 a year, you get to go free. If you're buying your first home, you're going to have a tax credit up to $15,000 to get there. What happened after the Great Recession in this one? An awful lot of you range in age from the millennials have started off back after 9/11, all the way to the people graduating this year… Are not in a position to do that, because your jobs have been postponed or non-existent. But providing an opportunity, I can get you into the system.
We're also going to protect Social Security, increase the benefits for millions of seniors. We're going to do that all in a partnership and lockstep with the Hispanic community. And by the way, the President's proposal to eliminate the tax you pay when you get your paycheck for Social Security, without any means by which to replace it, the actuary at social security said Social Security will be bankrupt by 2023. They've never liked it to begin with. So look, success and prosperity of the Hispanic Americans is indispensable to the success and prosperity of the United States, and of all America. It's that simple. Hispanic families are responsible today for $2.6 trillion of our gross domestic product, and growing. If that was a standalone economy, a country all by itself, it would be the eighth largest economy in the world. Think of that.
Now imagine how much more that would grow if everyone had access to the tools they need to succeed. By investing in Hispanic communities, we're making the smartest possible investment with the greatest possible returns that our nation could make, period. We also need to rebuild our ability to work with our partners throughout the Western hemisphere to realize the enormous potential of this region in the world, to confront those leaders who continue to oppress the rights of their people. We should be leading the international effort to confront the massive humanitarian crisis in Venezuela. Maduro, who I've met, is a dictator, plain and simple, and he's causing incredible suffering among the Venezuelan people to maintain his grip on power. The Venezuelan people need our support to recover or their democracy and rebuild their country.
That's why I would immediately grant temporary protective status to Venezuelans as President. So the Republicans in the Senate can't keep blocking it like they did again just last week. I'll make sure we're supporting neighboring countries that are being overrun with immigration because of Maduro, like Columbia, which are caring for millions of Venezuelans who've fled their country in desperation. I'll use sanctions as one of the tools for a comprehensive strategy that includes humanitarian assistance, international pressure, and support for democratic actors in Venezuela to force the regime to embark on the road to a free and fair election. We also need a new Cuba policy. The administration's approach is not working. Cuba is no closer to freedom and democracy than it was four years ago. The fact there's more political prisoners, the secret police are as brutal as ever, and Russia is once again a major presence in Cuba in Havana… For my entire career, I strived for democracy and human rights, for freedom of the press, assembly and religion against dictators of the left and the right. As President, my policy will be governed by two principles.
First, Americans, especially Cuban-Americans, are the best ambassadors for freedom in Cuba. Second, empowering the Cuban people to determine their own future is central to a national security interest in the United States. I think it's unconscionable that the current administration is deporting hundreds of Cubans back to a dictatorship. There are almost 10,000 Cubans languishing in tent camps along the Mexican border because the administration's anti-immigration agenda. That's the administration actively separating Cuban families by not processing visas, through restrictions on family visits and remittances. I think we have to reverse that. The bottom line is that President Trump can not advance the democracy and human rights for the American people when he has embraced so many autocrats around the world, starting with Vladimir Putin.
Folks, we can do this. We can reach for more as a nation. We can rebuild. We can rebuild the backbone of this country and finally bring everybody along. America's always done best coming out of crisis. We're the only nation it's always come out of every crisis better than we went in. We can build a new administration that reflects the full diversity of our nation, including Hispanic communities. And Hispanic voters, especially in Florida, can help put our nation on a new path forward. And here in Florida today as the deadline to register to vote ends today… If you haven't registered, go out right now because it is an obligation. Every vote will make a difference. Check and make sure your family and friends are registered, and then make sure everyone has a plan to vote.
If you can vote by mail, vote by mail. If you can vote in person, vote in person, if you can vote early, vote early. You can vote early in person starting on October 19th in many places in Florida, including right here in Miami. Just make sure you vote. Together we can win. We can't let this pandemic change everything. We've got to get it under control so we can get our economy working again for everyone. We can come together as a nation. I'm running as a Democrat. Proud of it, but I will be an American President, not a democratic President with a capital D. I'll fight as hard for you and your family whether you vote for me or whether you vote against me because there's nothing we can't do when we do it together.
Folks, I've been other more optimistic about our chances as a nation in the 21st century than I've been my whole career. There's not a single solitary thing that's beyond our capacities as a nation. I mean that sincerely. The most talented workers in the world… We're the most incredible system in the world. We have a people, who when they stand together, have never, ever, ever, ever failed. Every time I'd walk out of my grandpa's house up in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he'd yell, "Joey, keep the faith." My grandma, when she was alive, would yell back, "No, Joey, spread it." Let's go spread the faith. Take back this country. We're so much better than this. God bless you all, and may God protect our troops. Thank you. Thank you.